# Falling Back In Love With Minecraft

I discovered Minecraft back in some of its earliest days, back during the multiplayer test, before the days of a survival mode. I was enamored with the game, and as development progressed, once Infdev started, I quickly was hosting a Minecraft server for my friends on an old Red Hat rack server my uncle had gifted me from his junk pile of decommed servers. We built, and built, and built, until we had a massive chunk of land covered head-to-toe in overnight shacks, elaborate tunnel systems, and blocky houses.

As Minecraft's development continued, we occasionally enjoyed installing mods, but before the days of modloaders, you had to be careful not to install mods that conflicted with others, since you were literally changing the source files in the JAR file itself, so we never installed many. By the time sophomore year of high school rolled around, my friends and I were EXPERTS. We were joining larger multiplayer servers and planning massive underwater dome cities, bombing runs to destroy our rivals, etc. instead of our schoolwork. Minecraft had become such an obsession, I quit playing World of Warcraft with my girlfriend, much to her dismay, as she was not at all a fan of punching trees and sheep.

As the years passed, development of the game shifted, and the mod scene matured to a point that still amazes me to this day (I'll be writing a lot about OpenComputers and ComputerCraft here in due time.) However, I eventually burned out, and took an extended break from Minecraft. I played other games, falling in love with the ArmA III Altis Life community and becoming a prominent developer on their forums and spending over a thousand hours in the game between my time with the Life Mod and general mil-sim shenanigans. As time continued to pass, I had less and less time to game, and the kinds of games I enjoyed slowly shifted through a variety of genres.

Every time I've tried picking up Minecraft again, it's just not held me for more than a few hours. It always felt like I was either stressing about mobs, or stressing about the 20 tech mods the modpack I was playing contained. Minecraft was no longer a relaxing romp with friends where we just built whatever we liked, there were goals to meet, and more dangers than ever (even the act of working through the night is discouraged these days by phantom creatures that attack you from the sky if you haven't slept in a couple days.)

Recently, while I had Discord open, I noticed a friend of mien was broadcasting a status of "Minecraft: Bliss Modpack" and, having never heard of Bliss, I looked it up. Pulled together from a wide selection of mods by Vazkii, Bliss is a modpack containing mods intended to keep a "vanilla" Minecraft feeling while adding many new features, and a peaceful-like experience (in reference to the Peaceful difficulty in Minecraft in which there are no enemies). Enemies don't attack unless you attack first, it comes with a preconfigured shader pack to improve the look and feel of the game, and a bunch of new foods, recipes, and blocks.

I spun it up with my best friend and platonic life partner Ricky, and was immediately blown away. The latest version of Minecraft has severely bumped up the quality of world and cave generation, and it pays off in droves. Along with the Quark mod (made by the modpack's developer, Vazkii) which adds new features to caves as well, such as bright crystalline structures and stalactite/stalagmite formations, Minecraft's new larger cavern generation creates truly breathtaking underground sights. Enemies no longer spawn above ground, making the overworld feel far more peaceful and makes sure you're not distracted by the natural beauty of the generated terrains.

We've added a small number of mods to the pack, such as ComputerCraft (adds fully programmable Lua-based computers into the game to assist in automation, or just to create interesting software inside of Minecraft,) and for the first time in years, I'm chomping at the bit to play Minecraft almost every day! The feelings of stress have melted away, and I can enjoy the game like I did back in its early days.